Early, 60, or early 70s. I suppose. It was a guy from Southern California and met a girl from northeastern Ohio in Greenville South Carolina, they dated for a little while. They got married, graduated from college and then went to Wichita Kansas and Adam Ministry there for a few years and it was during that Ministry during that time in their lives, that God to get into it to impress upon them, the burden them to plant a church, and they wondered where they should plan to church, not a trip to see her parents in Northeast, Ohio that they came through Columbus area and they said this would be a great place to plant a church in. So they began to think and pray about what it is that God would have them to do and they settled in on on a suburb and north of Columbus in this area and then finally God directed them here to Westerville and they planned it at church. And on April 25th 1976 this church was born was birthed came to life and it was really A labor of Faith back then nowadays when people start churches in and I'm not saying that it's any easier to start churches nowadays. But, but now it is, when people start church is typically they have a lot of financial support to help them. Don't have thousands and thousands of dollars from church planting organizations. Whether it be North American Mission board, or converge, or Acts 29, whatever it might be, they have thousands upon thousands of dollars to help with initial cost setup costs, things like that. Lot of times the pastor who is planting the church and their team Delray's financial support from other churches so that it helps offset the costs. So they don't have to work necessarily a full-time job but they can give all of their energy and all of their effort to to planting a church and end the be paid for it through the support of a partner in churches. And I think that's a wonderful thing. I think that's a wonderful way to do it. I'm thankful for that model but back then it wasn't that way. The church planting family. Really didn't know how they were go. To make ends meet the church itself. Had no money to speak of their weren't enormous Financial gifts, given to help plant the church. And so they, they stepped out in faith, and they, they did this in. And in faith, they had their first service in faith. They moved and merge with another church down off Morris Road in faith. They bought this property when Cleveland Avenue was really nothing but a country road, right? Two lanes. And we can hardly even conceive of what it was back then. For those of us who were, who haven't been there or weren't there at that time, but they just had faith and they bought this property not knowing how they were going to buy it. Not knowing this really how they were going to pay for it. They built this building not knowing how they were going to do that. They took on missionaries when the church was in its infancy and they had no idea how they were going to continue to support financially these missionaries. But one by one, they added missionaries to the missions, family and continue to support them. And I'm saying all of that was done because they believed that God. Would have a church planted here. They believe that there was a need for a church, not just then, but going into the future that would boldly proclaim the truth of God's word and not back down to cultural whims and demands of a secular society. They believe that God would use this church as a lighthouse in this place, to make sure that people who are living in darkness, might be exposed to the light and the truth of God's word. It was all by faith. Last year, the leadership of the church asked you who are members and regularly attend the church to buy Faith support something. We call the One Vision campaign to say, listen to We, we by faith. God has brought us to the place where we are, but we need to look ahead to what God would have for us to do next and how best to prepare this church. And the facilities that he's entrusted to us to to reach not just this generation, but future Generations. So that we might connect them through the gospel to Jesus Christ. And so many of you jumped in and and you said, okay, by faith, we're going to support this. If I paid, we're going to give in. And by faith, we're going to move forward and and you have been faithful in your commitment to that and for that I just want to command those of you who have been part of that campaign but we're a year into it now and so we were like when in the world are you ever going to turn over some dirt around here, right? We're working on it, we're working on it and by God's grace and if everything goes the way we hope it will go. We hope and pray that right after Jonathan O'Brien's wedding, we will be turning over some dirt and building some things and and and remodeling and and reimagining parts of the building to, to make sure that their expanded to reach, more children to teach for children, to make more disciples about children, and adults alike throughout this campus and adding on to the existing facilities to meet the needs that we have today, but also prepare us for the future. And we're doing it by faith. Or doing it by faith. so, when it comes to face, You'll never really find a clearly defined definition of faith in Scripture. The text that we're going to this morning, many people look at it as though. It is a definition. It says this is what faith is but as we work through the text this morning, I plan on showing you that this isn't necessarily what faith is, but this is what faith does. Find me a copy of God's word this morning. Please. Hebrews chapter number 11, Hebrews chapter 11. There are numerous passages in God's word that tell us. What faith does? And I think that this place is probably very familiar to. Those of us who have been in church for any length of time. If you're relatively new to church, if you're relatively new to the faith than this is something that you might here, refer to every once in awhile as God's Hall of Faith, the passage of scripture in which God starts out by revealing to us, I believe what faith does and then how that faith is played out, or how it was played out, how was lived out in the lives of his Saints through Old Testament times and even into today, And I think that it's important to talk about this. I think it's important to just start this series forward by faith. Because as we move closer and closer to the breaking of ground of the One Vision initiative, we need as God's people to be reminded of the role that faith is supposed to have in our lives personally but also that we need to be reminded of the role that faith is to have in our lives corporately in the life of CrossPointe Church. Hebrews was written by a man, we don't know. Course all scripture is given by inspiration of God, so God is the Divine author of this book but we don't know the human authors that he used to paint it. Some people believe it was. Paul others, believe it was a Polish. There's a case made that Luke wrote. This the reality is we don't know because God didn't reveal it to us. It doesn't say in the beginning of Hebrews who wrote this book and there's really no clue throughout the letter. Who was the human author and I guess it doesn't really matter why because it's divinely inspired by God anyway and it's for our good. To look with me. If you wouldn't Hebrews chapter number 11, beginning and verse number one will look and worked on pack today. 3 versus God's word says now Faith. Is the Assurance of things hoped for the conviction of Things Not Seen. Or buy it. The people of old received their Commendation by faith. We understand that the Universe was created by the word of God. So that what is seen was not made out of things that are invisible. When we look at this passage and when we think of it and its overall context, that the message that we need to pull from this, the thing we need to understand is this one, simple truth, that every believer must live. By faith has made it possible for every believer to live by faith, so that every believer can live by faith. But I don't want to word it that way because I think it's necessary that we understand that it's not just a suggestion that Believers live by faith. But it's it's really an imperative that Believers must live by faith. That don't we, as the people of God are called by God to live by faith, that we begin to understand that a little bit. As we think, about the situation, the circumstance that brought about this letter Hebrews, this letter was written to a group of Jewish believers who heard the truth of the Gospel, who heard that. The Jesus Christ is the Messiah, the promised Messiah, the one for whom they were all waiting. The one. And that they were anticipating to come. And so Jesus, they believe that Jesus, is this Messiah? Who lived who suffered on the cross for our sins, as our substitute, who died was buried, who rose again, who ascended, and who is coming to get again, it's all these, these Hebrews, these Jewish people heard this message, their eyes were open that the faith to believe was imparted to them, so that they placed their faith and trust in Jesus Christ Alone. Not their works, not in their keeping of the law. And so they in placing their faith and trust in Christ, they move from this belief in the old Covenant as the, the means of Salvation to the Fulfillment of the old Covenant, which is Jesus alone. And they Place their faith in him, and they were saved. But there's salvation came with a cost. You see their salvation, their faith in Christ affected, not just who they are, but it affected really, what happened around them in the things that happened to them. And so they began to suffer as a result of their faith in. And so they they were living in a time in which they're even future on Earth was uncertain. And so they're there must have been a, a pull in their heart on their life to to go back to the things the way, things used to be. Why? Because the way things used to be it was just easier. They didn't suffer like they suffered now, his followers of the messiah's followers of Jesus Christ. And so there was this continual Temptation and it on their lives to turn back to the old Covenant. And so the writer of Hebrews, one of the main themes that's established throughout this entire book is the Christ is better. He's better than the sacrificial system. He's better than the ceremonial isn't. He's better than been trying to fulfill the commands of the Old Testament. Law Christ is better wife because he's the one who fulfilled every aspect of the law entirely, and it while they could not fulfill it. Jesus did. So, put your faith in the one who did for you. What you could never do for yourself and therefore your future, even though on Earth it is uncertain, your future, hope is tied to the promises of God in Christ. That's the message of Hebrews. That's why this book was written. It was written to encourage these Believers to endure. Knowing not only that Christ was better than living under the requirements, the old Covenant, but also that they would have pained the future Promises of God that were at that time on the scene to them. So now it makes sense that the author would come and say, okay. Faith. Faith is vital. Faith is necessary living by faith, is imperative for those who are in Christ now today. People will mock the idea of living by faith because some have misused or wrongly Define the word for their own personal gain. We're familiar with the word faith movement that treats, God is a Genie in a Bottle that with every little whim or wish that you have, you can go and you can rub the bottle. And, and if you have just enough faith in in the, in the genie, that comes out of the bottle, then he'll give you exactly what you want. What you wish what you desire. And so if you want more money, man, he'll give that to you. If you have faith, if you need to be healed, he'll give that to you. If you have faith, you want a bigger house. He'll give that to you. If you have faith it, if you want a better position in life of a better job or promotion or something like that, he'll give that to you. If you just have enough faith, if you, if you want to be rich man, I'm just plant the seed of $1,000, and that's my seed. Will Spring forth into hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars. That's the word faith movement. A perverted the meaning of Faith. They preferred it. What God desires when he says You must live. By faith. And in such in so doing they if they've made really living by faith has a mockery to the outside world is watching. Others, reject, living by faith because living by faith looks risky. Living by faith looks crazy. You're going to do what? You believe what? Is your your Living For What? You're not your life, isn't really all about getting and having a new painting and securing for your future. So that you can enjoy rest and read he's and and and relaxation for the rest of your life that you're that you're living for something Beyond this life. What are you nuts? Why would you do something like that? People think it's risky. That is crazy. And when I thought about that, the reality is this plays into to the default orientation of our flash. Why? Because deep down we are people who crave assurance. We want Assurance, don't we? When you go to buy a house or sell a house, what do you require of the person who's buying the house from you, you require earnest money. Why? Because you want the assurance that they're going to go ahead and finish this contract and buy the house at the amount that you agreed upon. And so that earnest money then gives you a a little bit of a guarantee that they're going to finish what they started and they they sign a contract. When's the last time you saw the house just by shaking somebody's hand and saying, okay give me the money when you get a chance. We crave insurance. If you went to buy a car today, you couldn't walk into a dealership and come to a settled price on the vehicle, get the keys. Shake the hand with the manager of the dealership and say okay, I'll send my first payment next month. No, they wouldn't let you take the car. Why? Because the the auto dealership wants the insurance. That you're going to fulfill your commitment to them. So you have to sign a contract. Would you put your money in a bank that didn't have FDIC insured? Why? Because you like Assurance it's the default orientation of our flesh. We want assurance that things are going to be okay. And so we are somewhat by Nature risk-averse. When it comes to these things. And the reality is we find Assurance in the things that we can see, the things which are tangible. The things that we can put our hands on. Therefore it is the grace of God that enables us to have faith that may look risky. That may look crazy. That faith and then to live by faith in God, regardless of what we can see. Why is all this important? Because doing anything of any spiritual importance. Any spiritual significance, demands living by faith. Both personally, but also corporately together as a church. The reality is the One Vision campaign in and providing for the future of the ministry of CrossPointe Church isn't anything? That was that one person can do by themselves. But it requires that every member of CrossPointe every person who caused Crosspoint, home acting, and moving forward in faith, trusting that God will provide for our needs believing that he will do so now and into the future. I was thinking about this while I was away. I thought you were far too long. It seems that the we have just simply been reacting to what God is doing but I think we we need to move to the point where we were anticipating and that we're demonstrating faith in the God, who established this church, who is right now. Growing this church who desires to use this church, took continually lead, people to connect and commit to Jesus Christ until Jesus himself returns. And so, it requires faith. We move forward by faith. Therefore it's imperative that every believer must live by faith because biblical Faith enables God's people to live boldly. How exactly does biblical Faith allow us to live? Boldly. Won't answer that question by showing you three fundamentals of biblical Faith from the text that we read today. The first one is this faith in God is founded upon the promises of God. if you look at the the text in front of you, it says Now, Faith is the Assurance of things hoped for the conviction. Of Things Not Seen. Now Faith. Board. Now is a continuance of conjunction. It's meant to buy the author. Connect what he is. Already said to what he is saying and so that it's one idea or one thought. Now those who translated scripture from the original tax, they added the verse of the chapter and verse divisions and they did so to make it easier for reference purposes, but the reality is that you can only understand what he says in chapter 11 by understanding what he has said in the versus previous to this. He's saying that everything I'm about to say is based on that which I have already revealed that which I have already said and end. So he he stated this in verse number 39, that we, those of us who are saved those of us who redeem those of us who have placed their faith and trust in Jesus Christ as The One and Only Hope of Salvation. We are not of those who shrink back. We don't walk away from, we don't we don't, disengage we don't retreat. We don't turn back to the old Covenant. We don't go back to the way, things used to be. We are not of those kind of people, but of those who have faith and because we have faith, we persevere. We continue, we move forward, we advance. We continue to follow the lord, no matter where God wants us to go. No matter what situation or circumstance, we find ourselves in. We don't back away, we continue to move forward, it's only uses this conjunction now because he wants them to talk about what faith does. He throws this word out here, faith. We are not of those who shrink back there destroyed by those who have faith in persevere so their souls or preserve their souls. And then he says, now Faith is Present active indicative. Faith is let me just explain to you as clearly as I can't what that means. What the author says about faith about what faith does. It was true. The moment he wrote that But it is also, it was also true before it was ever written down. And it remains true today. That face is something that face is this thing that does something? It was true. Then it's true now. So what does that mean? It means believe we could anchor ourselves to this text wife because while it was written for a group of people 2000 years ago, it is every bit as relevant to us today. It is just as true for us today as it was back then. So what does faith do? Faith is the assurance. The Greek word homeostasis. It's used three times New Testament, all three times in the book of Hebrews and it is used in similar but different ways. If that makes sense. SOS, I was looking through trying to figure out kit. What is the, what is the usage of this word? How is this word used that? The best thing that I can come up with is that it is meant to serve as some sort of a foundation that upholds. That supports. That can take really the weight of that which is built on top of it. You do whenever somebody build a building they they pour the concrete before they pull in for the concrete. What are they do? They they put the rebar down, those steel rods in a crisscross pattern all the way through. And then they pour the steel are the concrete on top of that, what is the rebar do? The rebar, reinforces the concrete to make it stronger and stable, so that it can receive the weight of the building? And hold up over time. That's what faith is. Face. Does that for us now. Now face is ultimately, first and foremost in Got it is in what God has done. It is what God has promised to us. Faith is the Assurance. It is the the foundation. of things hoped for Snow. We'd look at hoping. And if you've been here long enough, you understand that? The word hope isn't the way that we sometimes think of the word. Hope we hope it's a nice day tomorrow or are we hope lunch is good today or or we hope it's easy to get out of here today and we don't have to sit in traffic for forever. We hope this or that, no hope is. Is this confident expectation? Did the we're confident that that something is going to take place that that we expect something to be done. Something to be given. Something to be provided faith is the assurance. Some translations. Say it's the substance. of things hoped for But when you look at that, you have to ask yourself the question. Why do we hope? In, what are we hoping? In whom are we hoping? In whom or in what is our confident expectation? Placed? or the words that you will find throughout Hebrews 10 and 11, actually the end of chapter 10 and into chapter 11 is the the idea of promised Promised. To look at with me if you would inverse number, 36 chapter 10 verse number 36 for you have need of endurance. So that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what is what promised if you drop down into chapter number 11 and you go to verse number 11, it says what that talk about, Sarah by Sarah her. Put herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age. Since she considered him faithful who had promised Now, the story Sarah was well beyond child-bearing years, but yet. Pulled Abraham from your union with Sarah from that marital Union. One will, some will come from that Union. I'm through that son, will come the blessings that I promised you that, that by your line in through your line, all of the earth will be blessed. And Sarah here. According to chapter 11, even though she laughed initially. When she heard, I didn't don't be too hard on Sarah. If you were 97 years old and someone said, hey guess what, you're going to have a baby ladies, you would laugh to write husband's. You were just flat pass out. But it says that she considered him. Why did she believe that she was going to have a child? because the promise has been made to her, And she considered him who made the promise to be faithful. look at verse number 13, these all died in faith, not having received the things Promised. Drop down all the way to verse number 39. All these though commended through their faith and not receive what was promised now. It's important for us to understand and know what the promise was. The promise they were looking toward was the Messiah. The promise they were looking toward was the, the one that all of the the ceremonial laws and sacrifices to. It was the, the promise that that from the woman, I would come a son of deliver, who would eventually destroy the enemy and provide a way of salvation for God's people. It was the promise of Jesus Christ. It was the promise of a messiah. Who would come live a perfect life die? A sacrificial death on the cross for our sins, as our substitute as our savior and be buried and rise again there there. Hope their focus was on this promise that there would be an ultimate deliver. And they all died, not having received the promise. That's the difference between us and them as they were looking forward to the cross. And we're looking back at the cross to see the Promise has been delivered. But the reality is that they had a confident expectation. Faith is the substance. Faith is the Assurance. Faith is the the foundation. of things hoped for the things hoped for are the promises of God. These people based their lives on the promises that God made and in the same way brothers and sisters, our life need to be based upon the promises that God has made yes. Or our lives, are are firmly fixed on the promise of Salvation in Christ. But yes, also we need to understand that every promise that God has made is true. And a God himself will deliver upon every single promise. Faith. Objectively binds, the Believers securely. It's the Assurance of things hoped for to that, which is real. The conviction to CertainTeed the proof. Of Things Not Seen. We live each and every day. in light of the fact that we believe that we anchor our lives, two things that that you and I have not yet seen And this is the substance. That holds us up. This is the, this is the, the substance. This is the foundation of life for us. This is because we have the promises of God. While I was on vacation I was thinking about this. I was thinking about the series I was thinking about this message a little bit and I put a lot of thought time thought into this and I thought about it. Maybe you've never really wondered this. Why are Disciples of Jesus Christ, believers I really thought about that. I spent some time on vacation think about this. And I've got a really profound answer for you. I mean it's deep. It took me a long time. Ready for it. Get you can get the paper write this down. We're called believers. because we believe, Right. See how you can you're not nearly as amazed as I was. We're Believers because we believe. What do we believe? We believe in the promises of God. We believe that God promised to send his son and his son came lived died, that he made payment for our sin that, that our guilt and and rightful judgment was transferred to him on the cross and that that he with his blood paid that debt for us and that it is Resurrection. The father is fully satisfied with the payment made by the sun, we, we believe that he ascended up into heaven. We believe that he sits right now at the right hand of the Throne of God, we believe that one day he is coming again, and when he comes again, he will receive us unto himself that where he is. There we will be. Also, we believe that we will forever be with the Lord. We believe this. We believe it with everything in a so much so that it determines how we live our lives or at least it should Someone wrote Faith furnishes. The heart with Firm support in the revealed Promises of God faith. Believe God, I believe, God is revealed in scripture and that Faith, scripture says isn't anchor, we see it here as an anchor laid out in the experience of Believers. Real Faith gives us a confidence substance in the present. Another word for biblical faith is not something that that we wish might happen in the future. It is not a hope in some chance biblical faith is basing. Our entire life on the things that God has promised knowing being absolutely confident. That even though we can't see them. They will come to pass. Therefore, the enemies of Faith. Biblical Faith are not doubt and fear. Those are merely symptoms that reveal that you don't trust, the promises of God. when you have a promise of God, laid out for you in the word and and in light of that promise, you're afraid, What is that fear doing? That fear is revealing a lack of trust. In the promise of God. If in the midst of having a promise from God and His word, whether it's for your spiritual or your temporal need, or even your Eternal future and mist of having a promise from God, that you sit there and you begin to doubt whether or not, that's true. What are you saying? You're saying God, I don't trust you to deliver upon your promise and brothers and sisters. That's a dangerous place to be. Listen. Sometimes we can be pretty skeptical about who to trust in this life, why? Because we know that human beings are not fully trustworthy. But please don't transfer to God. What is true of humans? While humans will let you down, while people will not always deliver upon their promise, while, while people are not always true. And trustworthy. God is always true, and trustworthy. And God will always deliver on every single promise that he's made to you. If he said, he will provide for your every need according to his riches, in Glory by Christ Jesus, he is going to do it. If he said that he's going to take you to be with him, if you place your faith and trust in his son, he's going to do it. You can live with that insurance every single day. That means the promises of God must have governed, you individually. It means that the promises of God must govern us corporately as a church. The God said he would build his church. We believe he's building it here through us. But there are other churches, Bible preaching, churches by God's grace being planted and he'll build his church through them. We're not alone. But we have a responsibility here. ultimately, We're talking about what Biblical Faith, does it. It, it doesn't just ground us. And give us a certainty of Things Not Seen. But biblical Faith also moves us to action is. So when we believe the promises of God, then faith in God provides confidence to follow, the will of God. The author of Hebrews further explained really the character and ineffective Faith by pointing to the, the example of God's people in the Old Testament, to show that, that this kind of Faith moved them to follow God, why? Because they believe God. Notice what it says a number 24 by it. What's it faith? By faith. This is talking about AAA not necessarily a tool, not looking at, at the faith is a screwdriver in the hand of God in which he he accomplishes this, something something know. This is the idea of a process by faith. It it, it leads to a process. When we are convinced that that God is true and trustworthy and we rest and rely on his promises, then it it does something in our heart and our mind and it it moves as it drives us to action. And he used the illustration of all of these Old Testament Saints, who had faith in the promises of God, and then acted on that face even though sometimes it didn't make any sense. Let me point out a few of them to you. Drop down to 1st and parade. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance and look at the next Rays. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. That's stupid. Right? Are you look at that and say, okay, that makes literally no sense. It is. You want to think how? Well that works fellows. Here's what you do. You go home today? You tell your wife. Okay, honey. We're selling the house, we're selling everything in the house. We're going to get the car. I'm going to start driving. Your wife may save to where are we driving? And what you would say. Don't know. Why are we going to do this? Because it's what I'm supposed to do. Yeah, but but where we going to live? Don't know. How long will you be driving? Don't know. Where do stop? Don't know. Okay, let's go right now. Who does that? But yet. Abraham. Had a faith in the promise of God. How do we know that look at her Summer Night by Faith? He went to live in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob heirs with him of the same promised noticed for he was looking forward to the city that has foundations whose designer and Builder is God. He was bolstered by a faith in the promise of God of something, he could not even see, but it drove him to obey. God even when by all human means, it made zero sense. It looked risky. And foolish. Looking for summer 17 by faith Abraham when he was tested offered up. Isaac, this is the son of the promise. And he who had received the promises was in the are active offering up his only son. God told Abraham, take your son to son of the promise and sacrifice them to me. Abraham took him bound him, put it on, put them up on an altar. Took the knife was ready to plunge it into his son when God stopped him? What would drive a man to go? That far? He was absolutely confident of the promise of God. And he knew that God would deliver on the promise one way or another. How do we know that it says he considered that God was able to even this is her summer, 19th to raise him from the dead from which figuratively speaking. He did receive him back. And Abraham was like, you know what, if God tells me to do this, I have so much faith in who God is and what God has said in the promise of God, that even though I can't see how this will work or why this will work. I know that God is going to work. By faith verse number 23, Moses, when he was born was hidden for three months by his parents, which was directed to obedience to the government, to the king, to the pharaoh of Egypt, who ordered that all Hebrew babies at the time would be killed. My paper store, 27, who left. Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king. Why? Because God told him to leave. God said, take my people to the to a place that I prepared for them. The land of their fathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Who cares? If Pharaoh says don't go, who cares? If you don't know how you're going to get there? Or what is going to cost you to get there, or what you're going to do? When you get there? You follow me. Even if the king Won't Let You Go. By faith. First over 29 people cross the Red Sea as on dry land cuz God told them to cross. By faith, the walls of Jericho fell down after they have been in circle for 7 days. Why? Because God told them to encircle the walls for 7 days. First number 33, These Old Testament Saints who through faith conquered kingdoms enforce Justice obtain promises stopped the mouths of lions, Quince the fight the power of fire escape. The edge of the sword were made. Strong out of weakness, became Mighty and War. Put foreign armies to fly. They all did this. Why? Because They believe God. They believe, the promise of God. and because they believe the promise of God, they acted in obedience to God. and therefore, Scripture says, they received their commendation. By faith, the people of old received their combination of. This does not mean that they were saved because of the things that they did. They were not saved because they obeyed these commands of God as they were, walking through a life together. No, it means that their faith proved But their actions prove their faith. And that God recognized them that their faith was genuine. We'll see if I can illustrate it. This way on August 18th, 2018 6 u.s. soldiers were password protected with protecting us a senior us delegation delegation of senior us officials in Kandahar City Afghanistan. When they were attacked by Taliban fighters, who had infiltrated the Afghan Security Forces. Immediately, they sprung to action and they they put down the threatened and they secured the area. They offered Medical Aid, medical assistance to to the people who needed it at the moment. They were shortly thereafter. Awarded, the Army Commendation Medal. Simply meeting this that the metal screws, that their leaders. Approved of their actions. Now, follow me for those who think that we are saved by our works. We're not we're only saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ alone. So he's not here saying that that we received the approval of God in a Salvation way because of our actions. The soldiers that I I mentioned they they did not gain entrance to the Army based on what they did, they were already in the Army which is why they did what they did. The same way, the people of the Old Testament live by faith. And it was Faith demonstrated that God, commended reproved. The Bible says in Romans chapter 4 verse or three Abraham believed, God and it was counted to him as righteousness. Inverse number 6, it says without faith, it is impossible to please him for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists in the rewards those who seek him. What's a no one is saved by works. There's nothing that you can do to earn God's approval. Faith is a gift that God brings and faith is a gift that that God brings the grace of Salvation. Bring the brings the grace of God in Salvation. Those who Trust In Christ Alone for salvation of a living faith. This is the point of a living faith that is expressed in obedience to the will of God. This means that you will live to follow him. Why? Because you trust him. Let that you're you gain everlasting life through faith in him and, and that you live daily because of faith in him. Versarac 3080 quotes of a kit 24 in chapter 10 but my righteous one shall live by faith. the reality is, you can trust God, why? Because he's Already done the greatest most undeserved things for you. He saved your soul. He's redeemed. You he's forgiven you of sin. So you can you can trust him. And you can trust him to to do what he said he would do. That's why I asked you this question or your actions a witness to your faith. Are your action to witness to your faith? That leads to the third thing. Faith in God acknowledges, the power of God. First number three is really illustrative. He tries to make the issue of Faith. Even more clear the author provides a and illustration by directing his readers to Creation. Specifically that Faith brings us to grasp that Faith brings us to understand. That God created all things. By his work. So this is what the author of Hebrews is doing. Is taking these Jewish Believers and he's, he's dragging them back to Genesis 1. And he's saying, listen in the beginning, God created the heavens and the Earth in the Genesis 1 and 2. We see come by the word of God, the sun and moon and stars that came into being by the word of God of the sea was created by the word of God, Dryland appeared by the word of God. The Seas were filled with all sorts of of of marine animals by the word of God. The land was filled with all sorts of land animals. And insects by the word of God, the heavens were filled with all sorts of birds by that. By the power of God human beings were created by, by God's power. He brought everything into existence and he made it all out of nothing X. Neilio he. He didn't use something. That was already there to pick to bring about something else. Know, he did something that only God can do you, and I can make something out of something. We can take an element that already exists, a material that already exists and we can transform that we can make something different out of that to meet a specific purpose or or to meet a specific need but not one of us in this room and nobody who has ever lived on this Earth. Save the Son of God. Himself has the power to take nothing and make something out of it. So follow me, hear what you saying is listen to this, this one in whom you have faith. This this faith. That anchors your soul. Because it's based in the promises of God. This God who made the promises? Is all-powerful. He he not only has the character to make promises and to fulfill these promises. He has the power to bring these things to pass. He has the power to make new a life that is steeped in sin and broken. When you call out in faith and trust in Jesus Christ Alone, he he has the power to make you a new creation. He has the power to bring you to himself. He has the power to deliver on every single promise that he makes. Oftentimes in our minds, we think of God in a way that is not helpful. We think of God in terms of what we can see and what we can do ourselves. I I I I can't imagine a human being not being or being able to do that and so we think of God in in those types of perms, Yeah. God is Limitless. And power. God is not weak and untrustworthy. God is the almighty, and he has the power to do everything. He's promised. So, here's a question. You need to consider How does God's power change your life everyday? The power of God ought to have a real effect on how we lived a lie. If it does nothing else but it ought to cause us to live boldly. Listen. We live in a world in which people continually boldly brashly, display their sinfulness. We live in a world where where people will take their their cell phones and record themselves speaking. All sorts of vile, evil. Perverse. Wicked terrible. Things things that were Unthinkable a generation ago and they will still record themselves saying it with a smile on their face and then they'll post it on social media so than everybody else can see. Their wickedness. We live in a Time. In which men. Dressing up. In a caricature of women. In lingerie. Go into to public places and dance sexually in front of small children and these people are applauded for their bravery and their courageousness by the society. and we, Whose lives are built on this Foundation. A face. And the promises of God. We who have been affected by, and are being transformed by the power of God. Say nothing. We're silent. Listen to people of God cannot live timidly today. Our God can be trusted to deliver upon every one of his promises. And so we have the confidence to follow him, no matter the circumstance, no matter the situation because he has the power to do what he said he would do it. So this applies to every one of us was in Christ. Does your life, reflect bold, faith in the God of all creation? This applies to all of us here at Crosspoint. Will we in fact demonstrate our faith by moving forward together? To do whatever we need to do to reach this, and successive generations with the truth of the Glorious Gospel of Jesus Christ. Do you think it's worth it? I said before the faith is not clearly defined in Scripture. What scripture clearly reveals what faith does. And then makes it clear that every believer must live by faith. Why? Because Faith, ultimately honors, God, and pushes us his people to move forward. Are you living by faith? Does your supposed faith in Christ as your supposed faith in God directly affect how you lit everyday. It ought to For his glory and purpose. Will you play with me? Or thank you. Forgiving us faith. We know that the kind of Faith exists as a gift of your common Grace to every person. Lord, that's how we operate day in and day out. We're talking about faith, specifically in you, it's the saving Faith. It's a two Living Faith to Faith that aids and empowers and moves forward. Our sanctification is were being made more and more like Christ. It's a faith. The governs, every aspect of our life. Marriage and parenting work. Finances. Governor are worshipping a service to you. Lord, I Thank you for the faith of your people. But Lord, I I I pray that that we would see the necessity of living by faith. That the faith is meant to be so much more than just something that we we hold onto in and claim. So that that when we die, we we see you. Florida has a genuine effect. Every day in our lives, God, I pray if there's one here today who is never placed their faith and trust in you Lord. May they see that that the only way to be saved the only way to be made new. Is by trusting in what Jesus did and who Jesus is alone and trusting and no other one. Lord we are saved by grace through faith. Lorde. Without faith. It is impossible to please, you We could never draw near to you, apart from faith. The Lord. I pray that today they would step out and, and believe you for salvation call upon you. For whoever calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved, or bathe a call up on you, in full faith in Insurance. Knowing that if they call upon you and ask you to redeem them asked you to save them. Ask you to forgive them, other send that they will be forgiven. Lord, let this church be a church. The demonstrates, great faith. Floored in ways that make no sense to the world around us. Let us be a church. That is governed by faith. And you would in your word. Have your way in our lives father as we prepared to receive the Lord's Supper today. That you might be glorified in a group rate, in Christ name, amen. I can't tell you how much it means to us. That you took time out of your busy schedule to join us today. Thank you before you go. I want to ask you this one question. Do you know that you are saved to be saved? Means that you are safe from God's judgment and condemnation. You see, God is a perfect and holy God and as creator of all things, God created humans to love and worship him and be loved by him. But all Humanity has rebelled against God and has been separated from God and is condemned by God why? Because God cannot and will not except sin and sinful people, and God could have wiped his hands of humanity and left us to perish. But God loved us so much that he gave his one and only son, that whoever believes in him, will not perish, but have everlasting life. You see God did not just say he loves you. God prove his love for you when he gave his son to die on the cross. For you. While you were still a sinner because Jesus Paid the price for your sin, you could be safe from God's judgment and you can receive God's mercy. Instead of God's condemnation, there's no work that you have to do. There's no price that you could ever pay to receive God's love and grace. The work has been done and the price has been paid by Jesus on your behalf. Desperate man wants asked, what must I do to be saved? The answer was simple believe on the Lord, Jesus Christ. And you will be saved. If you don't know that you were saved, will you call out to God right now and confessed Journey for a savior, will you turn your life over to Jesus and stop trying to save yourself and start, trusting Christ Alone to forgive your sin and to save your soul. You're the Bible says, if you confess with your mouth, that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. You will be saying it with the heart One, Believes it is Justified it with the mouth one confesses. It is safe for everyone. Who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. The greatest need of every human being is to receive the mercy and grace of God, as you call out to him right now, he will forgive you, he will give you a future and an unshakable hope if you have questions or you want to talk to someone about salvation text, the word questions to 55498. Will respond quickly. Again, text the word questions to 55498. We hope to hear from you. Thank you for joining us today. Please know that we are praying for you and I hope you'll join us again next Sunday online or in person. 